Add NGINX Ingress controller with OSM tutorial (#3592)
nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress: docs/content/tutorials/nic-osm.md

## This document outlines how to integrate F5 NGINX Ingress Controller with Open Service Mesh (OSM)

> Open Service Mesh will work with both versions of [F5 NGINX Ingress controller](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress): the free as well as the NGINX Plus versions.
> 
> Below is a link to the official F5 NGINX Ingress controller documentation.
> [F5 NGINX Ingress controller](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open Service Mesh works with both the free and NGINX Plus versions of the [F5 NGINX Ingress controller](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress).

Below is a link to the official NGINX Ingress Controller documentation.
[F5 NGINX Ingress Controller](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/)
```

# Integrating NGINX Ingress Controller with Open Service Mesh

There are two ways to integrate the NGINX Ingress Controller with Open Service Mesh (OSM):

1. Injecting an envoy sidecar directly with NGINX Ingress Controller.
2. Using the Open Service Mesh `ingressBackend` "proxy" feature.

# NGINX Ingress controller and OSM with sidecar injected

> First install OSM in the cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, install OSM in the cluster.
```

```bash
osm install --mesh-name osm-nginx --osm-namespace osm-system
```

> ### Mark NGINX Ingress controller namespace for sidecar injection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Mark the NGINX Ingress Controller namespace for Sidecar Injection
```

> *NOTE:* Depending on how you install NGINX Ingress controller, you might need to create the `namespae`. For example, if you are using manifests to install NGINX Ingress controller, you can complete all of the steps on our documentation page, *EXCEPT*, actually deploying NGINX Ingress controller. This is because, when using the sidecar approach, OSM needs to "manage" the namespace so it knows what `namespaces` it needs to inject sidecars into.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*NOTE:* Depending on how you install NGINX Ingress Controller, you might need to create the `namespace`. For example, if you are using manifests to install NGINX Ingress Controller, you can complete all of the steps on the documentation page, *EXCEPT* for deploying NGINX Ingress Controller. When using the sidecar approach, OSM needs to "manage" the namespace so it knows what `namespaces` to inject sidecars into.
```

> Next thing we need to do is install OSM into the `NGINX Ingress controller` namespace so that the `envoy` sidecar will be injected into NGINX Ingress controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to install OSM into the `NGINX Ingress Controller` namespace so the `envoy` sidecar will be injected into NGINX Ingress Controller.
```

First, create the `nginx-ingress` namespace:

```bash
kubectl get ns nginx-ingress
```
Then "mark" the `nginx-ingress` namespace for OSM to deploy a sidecar.

```bash
osm namespace add nginx-ingress --mesh-name osm-nginx
```

> The above command will use the mark the `nginx-ingress` namespace, where OSM will be installed (sidecar)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above command will use the mark the `nginx-ingress` namespace, where OSM will be installed (sidecar).
```

### Install a Test Application
To test the integration, we will use the `httpbin` sample application from the [Ingress With Kubernetes NGINX Ingress Controller](https://release-v1-2.docs.openservicemesh.io/docs/demos/ingress_k8s_nginx/) guide.

The following three commands will create the namespace for the application, add the namespace to OSM for monitoring, then install the application.

```bash
kubectl create ns httpbin
osm namespace add httpbin --mesh-name osm-nginx
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openservicemesh/osm-docs/release-v1.2/manifests/samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml -n httpbin
```

### Add required annotations to NGINX Ingress Controller deployment:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: nginx-ingress
  namespace: nginx-ingress
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx-ingress
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: nginx-ingress
      annotations:
        openservicemesh.io/inbound-port-exclusion-list: "80,443"
```

> This annotation is *required* when injecting envoy sidecar into NGINX Ingress controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This annotation is *required* when injecting envoy sidecar into NGINX Ingress Controller.
```

`InboundPortExclusionList` defines a global list of ports to exclude from inbound traffic interception by the sidecar proxy.

### Verify that the envoy sidecar has been *injected* into NGINX Ingress

```bash
kubectl get pods -n nginx-ingress
NAME                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS       AGE
nginx-ingress-7b9557ddc6-zw7l5   2/2     Running   1 (5m8s ago)   5m19s
```

> 2/2 shows we have two containers in the NGINX Ingress controller pod: NGINX Ingress and Envoy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"2/2" demonstrates there are  two containers in the NGINX Ingress Controller pod: NGINX Ingress and Envoy
```

> Configure your NGINX VirtualServer yaml definitions to similar configuration below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure your NGINX VirtualServer `yaml` definitions with the adjustments below.
```

```

Test your configuration:

```bash
 curl  http://httpbin.example.com/get -v
*   Trying 172.19.0.2:80...
* TCP_NODELAY set
* Connected to httpbin.example.com (172.19.0.2) port 80 (#0)
> GET /get HTTP/1.1
> Host: httpbin.example.com
> User-Agent: curl/7.68.0
> Accept: */*
>
* Mark bundle as not supporting multiuse
< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< Server: nginx/1.23.3
< Date: Sun, 19 Feb 2023 19:06:47 GMT
< Content-Type: application/json
< Content-Length: 454
< Connection: keep-alive
< access-control-allow-origin: *
< access-control-allow-credentials: true
< x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 2
<
{
  "args": {},
  "headers": {
    "Accept": "*/*",
    "Host": "httpbin.httpbin.svc.cluster.local",
    "Osm-Stats-Kind": "Deployment",
    "Osm-Stats-Name": "httpbin",
    "Osm-Stats-Namespace": "httpbin",
    "Osm-Stats-Pod": "httpbin-78555f5c4b-t6qln",
    "User-Agent": "curl/7.68.0",
    "X-Envoy-Internal": "true",
    "X-Forwarded-Host": "httpbin.example.com"
  },
  "origin": "172.19.0.1",
  "url": "http://httpbin.example.com/get"
}
* Connection #0 to host httpbin.example.com left intact
```

## Using The Open Service Mesh `IngressBackend` "proxy" Feature

> 
> Install OSM into cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

By running the following command, you will install OSM into the cluster with the mesh name `osm-nginx` using the `osm-system` namespace.

```bash
osm install --mesh-name osm-nginx --osm-namespace osm-system
```

Once OSM has been installed, this next command will mark the NGINX Ingress Controller as part of the OSM mesh, while also disabling sidecar injection.

> *NOTE*: The nginx-ingress name can be created as part of the NGINX Ingress install process, or manually. It must be created before you "add" the namespace to nginx-ingress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*NOTE*: The nginx-ingress name can be created as part of the NGINX Ingress install process, or manually. It must be created **before** you "add" the namespace to nginx-ingress.
```

```bash
osm namespace add nginx-ingress --mesh-name osm-nginx --disable-sidecar-injection
```

### Install a Test Application

To test the integration, we will use the `httpbin` sample application from the [Ingress With Kubernetes NGINX Ingress Controller](https://release-v1-2.docs.openservicemesh.io/docs/demos/ingress_k8s_nginx/) guide.

The following three commands will create the namespace for the application, add the namespace to OSM for monitoring, then install the application.

```bash
kubectl create ns httpbin
osm namespace add httpbin --mesh-name osm-nginx
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openservicemesh/osm-docs/release-v1.2/manifests/samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml -n httpbin
```

### mTLS Setup

> To enable mTLS for NGINX Ingress Controller and OSM, you need to configure the `IngressBackend` API to use `https` as the backend protocol as and trigger OSM to issue a certificate. NGINX will use this certificate to proxy HTTPS connections to the TLS backends. The client certificate and certificate authority (CA) certificate will be stored in a Kubernetes secret that NGINX will use for authentication."*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable mTLS for NGINX Ingress Controller and OSM, you need to configure the `IngressBackend` API to use `https` as the backend protocol and trigger OSM to issue a certificate. NGINX will use this certificate to proxy HTTPS connections to the TLS backends. The client certificate and certificate authority (CA) certificate will be stored in a Kubernetes secret that NGINX will use for authentication."*
```

To begin, edit the `osm-mesh-config` resource:

```bash
kubectl edit meshconfig osm-mesh-config -n osm-system
```

> You will need to update under `certificate` to look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The certificate configuration must then be updated as below:
```

```yaml
spec:
  certificate:
    ingressGateway:
      secret:
        name: osm-nginx-client-cert
        namespace: osm-system
      subjectAltNames:
      - nginx-ingress.nginx-ingress.cluster.local
      validityDuration: 24h
```

> This will generate a new client certificate (osm-nginx-client-cert) that NGINX Ingress controller will use for mTLS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will generate a new client certificate (osm-nginx-client-cert) that NGINX Ingress Controller will use for mTLS.
```

The *SAN*, `subjectAltNames`, is the following form:

```bash
<service_account>.<namespace>.cluster.local
```

> With the above OSM mesh config changed, that secret will be created in the `osm-system` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the OSM mesh configuration changes, the secret will be created in the `osm-system` namespace.
```

There will also be the `osm-ca-bundle` secret as well, which is autogenerated by OSM.

```bash
kubectl get secrets -n osm-system
NAME                              TYPE                 DATA   AGE
osm-ca-bundle                     Opaque               2      37m
osm-nginx-client-cert             kubernetes.io/tls    3      17m
```

> Now, we need to "export" out these certificates in order to use them with NGINX Ingress Controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The certificates must then be exported in order to use them with NGINX Ingress Controller.
```

```bash
kubectl get secret osm-ca-bundle -n osm-system -o yaml > osm-ca-bundle-secret.yaml
kubectl get secret osm-nginx-client-cert -n osm-system -o yaml > osm-nginx-client-cert.yaml
```

> We need to edit the two exported out .yaml files and change a few parts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The two exported .yaml files will now require changes:
```

Edit `osm-ca-bundle-secret.yaml`
Remove the `private.key` section under `data.`
Change the `namespace` field to your nginx-ingress location
Change the `type` to `type: nginx.org/ca`

> Updated file should look like the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The updated file should look like the below example:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: osm-ca-bundle
  namespace: nginx-ingress
type: nginx.org/ca
data:
  ca.crt: <ca_cert_data>
```

Edit `osm-nginx-client-cert.yaml`
Remove the `ca.crt` in the `data` section
Change the namespace to the nginx-ingress namespace.

> Updated file should look like the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The updated file should look like the below example:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: osm-nginx-client-cert
  namespace: nginx-ingress
type: kubernetes.io/tls
data:
  tls.crt: <tls_crt_data>
  tls.key: <tls_key_data>
```

> Then apply these two secrets to the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once these two files have been edited, they will need to be applied to the cluster:
```

```bash
kubectl apply -f osm-ca-bundle-secret.yaml
kubectl apply -f osm-nginx-client-cert.yaml

```

> Ensure the secrets exisit in the `nginx-ingress` namespace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure the secrets exist in the `nginx-ingress` namespace:
```

    - name: osm-mtls
      namespace: nginx-ingress
  host: httpbin.example.com
  tls:
    secret: secret01
  upstreams:
  - name: httpbin
    service: httpbin
    port: 14001
    tls:
      enable: true
  routes:
  - path: /
    action:
      pass: httpbin
---
kind: IngressBackend
apiVersion: policy.openservicemesh.io/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: httpbin
  namespace: httpbin
spec:
  backends:
  - name: httpbin
    port:
      number: 14001 # targetPort of httpbin service
      protocol: https
    tls:
      skipClientCertValidation: false
  sources:
  - kind: Service
    namespace: nginx-ingress
    name: nginx-ingress
  - kind: AuthenticatedPrincipal
    name: nginx-ingress.nginx-ingress.cluster.local
```

Once these are applied, verify they are valid (virtualServer) and committed (ingressBackend):

```bash
kubectl get vs,ingressbackend -A
NAMESPACE   NAME                                  STATE   HOST                  IP    PORTS   AGE
httpbin     virtualserver.k8s.nginx.org/httpbin   Valid   httpbin.example.com                 26m

NAMESPACE   NAME                                               STATUS
httpbin     ingressbackend.policy.openservicemesh.io/httpbin   committed
```

> You can now send traffic through NGINX Ingress Controller with open service mesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now send traffic through NGINX Ingress Controller with Open Service Mesh.
```
